inbound marketing has changed and
allbound marketing is
[Music]
in welcome back to a fresh episode of
Breaking
bb.com I'm your host Sam Dunning and if
you haven't yet why check out our
weekday emails where I share unusual B2B
marketing ideas strategies as well as
fresh podcast episode you can join
thousands of B2B Legends head over to
breaking bb.com and hit that newsletter
tab you join me today I've got Jillian
Al we're going to be diving into how
inbound marketing is changing why the
traditional methods of inbound may not
be as effective what allbound marketing
means and strategically how you can
implement it into your business Jillian
is a VP of marketing over at qit welcome
to the show how are we thanks Sam thanks
for having me you're very welcome
looking forward to getting stuck in so
we never beat around the bush on this
show J and let's dive straight in what
inbound marketing I thought I thought it
working like really well I thought that
was like a a super super good goto
Market strategy to drive leads or demos
for your B2B company is it not as
effective
anymore I think it's changed right it's
evolved and and maybe with that we've
needed to to rethink what we call it um
I think inbound I mean the OG Godfather
of inbound is probably HubSpot right
they Ed the term and you know at a very
high level maybe oversimplified calling
it kind of like if you write it they
will come I think is is definitely dead
um in in that sense but I think it's
much more about being strategic working
with your partners across the commercial
organization finding out exactly who is
in your ICP creating the content exactly
for them sure you can use AI to help you
with prompts or you know fun taglines
whatever that might be but hon you still
need to be authentic and have a voice
and know that you're solving pain points
for someone very specific and kind of
walk them through their customer journey
be it from awareness down to intent to
buy and also full circle into promoting
you to their peers through dark social
and all of the things that you know we
also hear about today so in a lot of
ways and how it maybe originated like
many things I think um it looks a lot
different at least and allbound is
something I'm kind of and dubbing the
new go to market motion if you will for
for B2B as being a more successful way
to look at it got it we we'll get into
what old bound means and how folks how
marketers Founders and such listening in
can put that into play so so like you
said I mean HubSpot pretty much coined
in my marketing whenever it was years
and years ago with SEO strategies
creating articles creating blog content
to rank on Google it's a service we
offer at breaking B2B for for many of
our clients to to get found by high
intent prospects searching F your wares
and driving leaves but are you saying
that that's kind of not as good now or
we saying there's other roots to Market
or we saying like what's what's the
change between say 10 years ago and now
2024 meeting forwards well I think it's
just gotten harder first of all right so
you're not the only one writing about it
depending on what kind of audience
you're ICP is there you know there's no
shortage of B2B solutions for compies
out there you've got the r rise of AI so
people are just pumping out content then
you've got Google who unless you want to
click on their ads when to keep you on
the serp right so content still you know
has a role that I'm definitely not
saying it doesn't um I just think it
it's harder to cut through the noise get
the valuable content that people really
want to read because we also know that
we're operating in different circles yes
sometimes we do a search but more likely
when we already know what it is we're
looking for and we're talking to people
in our networks and our slack groups
wherever that is this whole again
concept of dark social um and then of
course you know being exposed to ads and
content in LinkedIn either through new
B2B influencers if you will um or just
simply paid ads thought leadership ads
Etc so I think there's a lot of infeed
content game you know that the social
platforms and even Google to their um
you know with their surp results are
trying to keep people in platform
which has really kind of changed that
notion it's not saying that SEO is dead
it's not saying that um content doesn't
have a a place I think it's just much
more nuanced and um companies have to
get smarter because it's just too
expensive to just throw money at
something that may work yeah yeah it's
fair I mean are we saying that now
there's there's almost way more channels
and way more streams to get information
platforms to consume information than
there was say 8 10 or so years ago yeah
AB when there was only a couple ways to
do Inbal marketing whereas now like you
say linkedin's a huge platform in itself
that B2B folks especially in the markx
space will be hanging out on slack
communities private Discord communities
all that stuff just weren't really a
thing back then whereas I think I mean
chat rooms existed when the internet
like was born right so it's not
necessarily new but I do think in terms
of your buying process and and Ed
edating yourself in you know Solutions
in the market and finding solutions for
your paining points um there's no
shortage of ways then you've got
Reddit um you know other channels that
people are trying to break through the
noise because no one wants to feel like
they're being pitched or sold to right
they want to find their own solution
because they found it themselves somehow
psych there there's a psychology behind
this I'm sure failing to uh understand
the terminology for it but um I think
it's just wanting to stay in control and
and um relying on of course your your
peers in the market a bit more than in
the past Word of Mouth
marketing not dead never was right um
and now there's just more places to find
them in like you
said yeah yeah yeah so is it a case of
it's I suppose it's we're saying that a
lot of the inbound stuff still works but
there's there's more
noise and as you said naturally if you
get a word of mouth recommendation from
a peer or someone you trust doesn't
matter what channel whether it's ads
whether it's Google search whether it's
LinkedIn whether it's YouTube or
something like that I suppose you're
always going to trust something you hear
direct from a
peer as opposed to to something you
might stumble across for the first time
cold or slightly cold yeah and I I think
maybe again to the point of what's
evolved is also how we've started kind
of democratizing information that we
want to be more social and you know not
necessarily just compete with each other
or not you know be too afraid to say the
wrong thing or I think we just as a
industry at least in marketing if you're
marketing the marketers there's a lot of
open forums and chatter and I think you
know I speak from my experience as a
marketer but I I assume and kind of know
that that exists in other other Realms
as well so
it's it does build a little bit more
trust in it and then it's also we didn't
even talk about like the rise of review
platforms so in B2B you would think G2
um as the the main one M Garder if
you're really um looking uh Enterprise
so sure that concept of having that
social proof is also nothing new it's
just more Avenues and how when your
marketing dollars are being squeezed how
do you focus where do you focus I think
is is the really hard part of
it yeah you're right you're right
there's there's so many channels now
especially in um in the marketing space
that we're often sucked into but curious
we were talking just now before we hit
record that you've moved out of that ICP
and now your ICP is more developers
right or Ecom folks and things like that
yeah um more on the technical side of
the house I would say you know website
infrastructure e-commerce directors um
you know people that probably have some
business kpis tied to the work that they
do but you know the in and out of their
every day is making sure the website is
up and running and not crashing and
things like that so they they are more
technical in nature and you know have to
find where they are and where they're
consuming information and if you come
from the mtech back background you're
like surely they're on LinkedIn and and
some are um but you know more lurking
than potentially kind of the echo
chamber uh that you kind of hear in the
marketing space sometimes so you know
we've done awesome meme ads on Reddit
and had success right um so we've had to
kind of step out of that I think if I go
to a conference and don't see that mtech
landscape slide with all the little dots
I've seen that for a decade plus now
right and that just gets bigger and
bigger and I feel that as a VP of
marketing like I want to do this I wanna
but I you know if I want marketing
attribution software I know which top
three players are in the market because
they're good at marketing right they've
exposed themselves well I have
relationships with a lot of people in
those companies even though I haven't
bought from them yet um and the
challenge is how do I do that in the it
space right um it's just a different a
little bit of a different ball game yeah
I I always like talking to marketing
folks that aren't selling to marketers
because like you said LinkedIn becomes a
bit of a bubble when you're connected to
a lot of those people and they usually
say the same stuff like conferences are
dead and this is how you do LinkedIn and
no one responds to cold Outreach and all
that kind of stuff when the truth is a
lot of that still works but a lot of
them are kind of sucked into the the
sense that they're hearing what
marketers are saying and they're a
marketer themselves and they're not
really deing with other Industries but
when you get into stuff like
manufacturing or folks that aren't
hanging out or LinkedIn or more
traditional Industries you realize that
a lot of these channels still work
absolutely fine yeah we're just so
almost closed into this little space so
it's uh it's always nice to talk about
this stuff so with that said that's
inbound
marketing o bound what does that
mean well for me I guess I can only
speak from from my perspective but for
me it's combining the goto Market motion
across all of the commercial teams
marketing BD sales CS essentially um to
kind of a unified goal of yes revenue
and what does that break down to yes we
still need to drive leads even though us
marketers love to say leads are dead
they're not right we still need to
understand who is in Market what's their
intent Etc but I think we can be much
smarter
about it and grow our businesses smarter
by being very strategic about the
accounts we approach and you know
understanding the signals that they're
giving us of whether or not they're
really ripe for a
conversation um and to your point when
you're not in this kind of B2B World on
martech like yeah cold calling can work
like it is a way to get the your company
out there like if I have a problem maybe
I hang up on the person I don't hang up
on people but I actually don't answer
their calls to be honest but like if
I've heard the name if I've had a
conversation with someone it might be
that no that's nothing for me right now
but I won't forget that right you know
we have examples of someone at a one of
the biggest companies in the world I
won't say who it is responded to an SDR
email I think it was a year and a half
after the fact so he clearly like saved
that email from an SDR we're talking one
of the top five biggest companies in the
world and got back in touch and just
replied was like I'm ready to have a
conversation like wow okay um so I think
it does and can work it's just about
being you know Partners in it and this
you know need to kind of measure
everything in marketing is also our
Achilles heel because we want to be like
you know we had that deal and you know
we brought this inbound and then it also
has created companies that and to be
fair where I work now we still measure
like what comes through the website
versus what the BD team is doing because
we need to understand where do we put
our investment dollars but it's more
nuanced than that because we should
hopefully marketing should hopefully
have an influence on everything in in so
many ways but I don't want to have to
measure that to prove that I think you
know um we can kind of get overwhelmed
in in our need to measure things and
create more divide than we create Unity
so for me all bound is is breaking those
divides down getting common goals
working together being strategic um you
know and en closing bigger better deals
because it's more relevant we're not
selling something they don't need we are
creating the value together all through
the process we're enabling sales from
like a product marketing standpoint and
you know working with our partners in CS
as well to turn those customers into
even bigger customers over time but also
as promoters because again social
signals all of those things it's kind of
comes full circle so that's all bound
for me it's really working as a unit
versus individual siloed teams and that
takes common goals and new processes the
write Tech stack all of those things
have to follow suit and it's not
something you flip on and off but it's a
a movement if you
will is that not just doing ABM inbound
and outbound marketing and demand
gen yeah I think in in some ways you
could call it that I mean we have ABM
campaigns so it's not to say that that
it's one or the other I think for me and
aligning internal stakeholders it's good
to have a North star and that is what we
use the word the term all bound for and
it's also a way to speak up and manage
up in management that like this is a
this is the thing we're doing together
this is not this ABM campaign versus you
know this bdr working on this particular
account like it's a it takes all hands
to to
lift yeah how how do you describe it
like when you're getting buying for this
with the exact
team ex I'm talking to yeah Fair one
yeah maybe
maybe I'm financially driven and I'm
just like what numbers is this going to
do because if you're financially driven
you don't care you call it whatever you
want just show me the money right um
it's more change management for people
that have been working in certain ways
for a long time and you know don't break
what's not broken it's like it's not
broken and we're not here to break it
maybe disrupt it a little bit so we can
do more and it's not about taking
anything away from anyone or reducing
targets it's really about the belief
that together we actually overachieve
versus kind of saying this is my ball
and this is your ball um but you can't
like just rule out and like we can't all
just like sit at the table together all
day and just chat like that's not it
either right so I think there's maybe a
concern that that it would become
ineffective or you know it's just not as
measurable or it's not as like that
whole waterfall math goes out the window
like no we're still doing the waterfall
math but when it comes to practice and
implem it we're doing it together and we
can go and reflect and say where our
assumptions true where could we tweak
this to you know either do better or you
know where did we overperform and and
why um so it's not like we're not going
to measure where things are coming from
necessarily it's more about um creating
the the the strategy that's you know
tied together so the marketing is not
off you know doing a campaign to a
Persona that BD is not calling to um and
that you know we're incent devised to
work together so for example we're
starting to feed inbound through our BD
team was traditionally sent straight to
AES because you know the intent like why
I create friction in the process I'm
like because AE should be doing
multi-threaded Enterprise Deals they
shouldn't drop everything to get to a
lead in five minutes but with my
marketing hat is yes you do need to drop
everything and get to a lead within five
minutes right so how do we balance it
well hey guess what BD has tons of
structure and is talking on the phone
all the time and this would be a welcome
conversation for them because it's a
totally different conversation and they
probably would enjoy that in their day
but it also builds up skills and helps
them get ready for potential promotions
into AE positions Etc so just a small
example of where we see this kind of
practically being implemented in in the
organization I'm at
today interesting interesting are your
what are your thoughts on
I'm guessing they're probably different
to mine because this is going off on a
bit of a tangent but if someone books a
demo or a cool for your
website some argue that they'd want to
speak to an expert or engineer doesn't
necessarily have to be a product expert
but could just be a salesperson that
knows the offer yeah so they can kind of
handle questions rather than just doing
30 minutes of
qualification they can maybe ask some
qualifying questions the product do do
can Business Development folks do that
if they're more Junior uh if more Junior
probably not and and we don't disagree
on that you know I think in the ideal
world I would do the full motion of
let's remove friction from the demo
booking completely and and not you know
if you with the technology is there
qualify are they in our ICP then it
routes directly to you know choose the
time on the calendar let's go um reality
is and maybe hopefully some of you are
listening you're just not there yet um
necessarily and what do you do in the
meantime and what's the kind of benefit
of you know getting to it faster versus
you know waiting and and not being able
to provide that the other thing
particularly in the instance that I'm
talking about right now is we have
really seasoned bdrs right so that's not
always the case but we're all in a
probably a different organization than
we were maybe two three years ago unless
you're in I don't know um cyber security
or something but that like rampant
growth where just hiring you know five
sdrs every month to feed your AE
promotion pipeline that's not really the
case anymore so you've got more
experienced strs and they're also
needing development so for for me like
I'm I have no qualms and we have a um
process in place where we wouldn't set
someone who's you know a month into the
role on the rotation for for speaking
with inbound um but we have a a pretty
seasoned bdr team that I feel really
comfortable with having those
conversations and I don't think it's
wasting anyone's time
I respect it I like to to challenge
processes yeah um now I went off on a
bit of tangent but from what you were
describing on allbound it sounds like
it's more than a a marketing channel
it's more of a complete go to market
Strat really so you mentioned like
combining sales customer success
marketing being strategic with the
accounts if you're doing some inbound or
some demand generation then also
outbound team are kind of trying to work
those accounts at the same time so it's
sounds like there's quite a lot to it
yeah and I think it's baby steps right
so you could design you could spend
months designing the ideal allbound
strategy you know and but it in reality
and implementing process is hard and
it's tough and technology is sometimes
with you sometimes it's working against
you Legacy technical debt so to speak in
your MX St can hurt you um so it's about
one step at a time and and finding those
wins and successes and to your point it
is more of a a go-to market strategy
than it is a marketing thing I think the
unique part of marketers and marketing
in an organization is we're by Nature
pretty good communicators most of us um
we have a unique kind of spot in the and
and maybe even responsibility in the
organization to to lead change that way
I think and you know I think I wrote it
to you at some point like I see kind of
marketing not going from marketing
equals inbound to marketing equals the
stewards of allbound like I think we
think about it right because the
definition of insanity is banging your
head against the wall and expecting a
different result right so when things
aren't working the way that they used to
we got to do something different and I
think many parts of the organization um
can feel that it's just like but what's
the answer and so here's one one big bet
and here's you know some baby steps to
get us
there do you do your sales team report
to marketing no no no no um nope and BD
doesn't report into marketing either so
that makes it even not diff I mean yeah
difficult I guess uh but I have really
good partners that um in in my kind of
regional VPS of of commercials so they
own BD sales and CS so that makes it
easier um that we're
and and want to do this and and make
this shift together so without that I
don't think it would be possible my
previous organization I did lead up the
BD efforts but um it can work even if
marketing is not
responsible I can imagine it's quite
difficult depending on I don't know how
many folks are within your sales Cs and
marketing team but I imagine for larger
orgs it's probably quite a lot of
implementation time like once you plan
this out to get everyone working
together yeah and I think when we've
launched it you know we're actually
still in the process of launching it's
more like we know we haven't thought of
every scenario Edge case scenario we
know there are cultural differences so I
work in a very Global organization we're
calling into and working accounts in in
you know countries 247 across the globe
and everyone has a different tactic and
a different way of you know having those
conversations but process and stuff like
that I think you know showing some early
successes and and also just being really
upfront of why we're doing this what we
expect what are our leading indicators
of success what is lagging of course
maybe revenue is probably a lagging one
even though it's the ultimate one um and
keeping people informed and and being
very transparent humble and you know
fully willing to just roll up your
sleeves and and get in there if you know
something doesn't work as planned or you
know on the positive side you know is
going really well like okay what else
can we do um but I think it's building
trust in the organization is probably
the enabler to be able to do
it if a B2B marketer or founder tuning
in is thinking quite like the sound of
this ound marketing what are some of the
kind of very first baby steps that they
should
take internal alignment that this is
something everyone especially in the
leadership team wants to do more
specifically in the commercial leaders
ship like I said you know your CFO just
wants to see the money so he's like do
what you want as long as all all things
lead to the you know Target if not more
um revops you know solid kind of tech
stack and process support there um I
think is a big part of needing that
alignment as well Tech stock you know
you can get there if you're not there
already um just you know putting in the
time for it but I think it starts with
alignment at the top and saying like we
need to maybe potentially change the way
we talk about it right because if we do
this and we still continue to separate
out how we talk about well what's
inbound doing what's marketing doing for
this versus what's BD doing it's it's
still going to create that Division and
I I think you need to allow that it's
going to take some change management if
you're doing it very separated today and
and kind of understand what that looks
like and stopping yourself like okay yes
actually my weekly email needs to start
changing because I've always reported on
inbound in my weekly email like I need
to talk about all bound in it because
yes I'm measured on what has come
inbound through the website but I'm
invested in what the the company is
doing as a whole so it's it's change
management um at the highest level got
it and are there many changes to how you
report like you mentioned there like
we've had this many inbounds this yeah
and I think you asked about how to
implement so we're actually implementing
as a POC right so we're not it's a nicer
way to kind of calm the organization to
say hey if this is not the success we we
know what will be then it was just a
test right so um with that we're making
a POC kind of dashboard and you know
combined metrics so I'm aligned with my
commercial leaders on what those should
be what they should look like how we
want to report on them and our more
Global weekly calls and things like that
so that we uh talk the talk right so
that's a big part of it as well um and I
think um you know we're GNA have to
just learn as we go with it and and um
support each other but I think again
just to repeat myself that alignment is
there and that's really what can enable
it got it and does it change a lot
tactically in terms of like the the
actual marketing channels you use I.E
whether that was doing events your
outbound team doing emails doing Cod
cools your marketing team do an SEO or
paid ads or riew sites or wherever your
buyers hang
out to an extent I think when you're
more aligned like I was you know in a
weekly kind of Revenue all hands and you
know the BD team's really frustrated
with what's going on with you know
retail right now okay like that's a
trend should marketing still be running
full force against retail if you know
we're really struggling there and our BD
team has started to Pivot towards well
I'm actually getting people in
government to pick up
it could be that we should still be
running and and doing demand gen and
Retail to make those calls easier the
next time they try but um I think it's
more just about having awareness and
transparency between the teams and not
necessarily changing tactics but it
identifying when maybe we should test
something new um so I don't know you're
gifting for example like that's a big
ABM tactic we haven't done it should we
do it I don't know let's test it let's
as part of this allbound measure like
you know our us team feels pretty
strongly about it you know ouria team
has you know maybe tried it before
without success so it's a little bit
like maybe we can test some things
together versus here's marketing's new
way of you know doing things do it right
um so I think it opens those
conversations to potentially test some
things together instead of testing in
isolation for experimentation do do you
folks tend to run much in the way of
kind of unusual marketing experiments
um that's a good question I don't know
about unusual I think I
just um we do test right I mean like I
said we're even implementing this whole
kind of inbound via BD as a as a test
right and we're not doing it in every
region we're doing it in just Amia and
North America to start with so I think
it's about um the nice thing about
having a global organization and and a
big team is kind of like well we can try
it here and if it works then we can try
it there and if not then that's fine it
works there but not there um unusual
tactics no I think uh we found that
memes work funny enough that's not super
unusual um we did some mockumentary
videos that you've um like maybe start
to see on on LinkedIn our our
performance marketing agency convinced
us and we did a one day shoot that was
really fun I haven't you know they've
gotten more engagement so in that way
they've been great for us but um we're
just trying to to keep the door open and
not just get too set in our ways um but
I'm also fine doing things that don't
scale right so LinkedIn for example
works for us in some countries but in
Japan where we do a lot of business
linkedin's not a thing and there's
actually not a onetoone platform I'm
like where can we target the people and
make the lists and stuff and it's just
it's not the same so then I'm like all
right well let's do this that's not
scalable and it's going to take a ton of
hours but let's just try it and then if
it works
then we figure out how to operationalize
it um
so yeah and do do you tend to go in like
a hypothesis of what you think might
happen and like we'll give this like a
three Monon window yeah we Chuck X
depend what it is right so yeah like
even this inbound PCC that we're doing
we're giving it to the end of the year
because it wouldn't be fair to evaluate
it after a month like we need to get our
sea legs uh so to speak so I think every
test has its limit and every marketer
has had that Doom and Gloom of like oh
my gosh I just you know I wanted to test
this like when do I cut it off I've
already spent x amount of dollars and
haven't seen what I thought I would um
but sometimes you got to stick with your
gut and sometimes you gota be like yeah
no this is not going to work I don't
need to wait the full month to to see
that right so it's just keeping an eye
on it and having you know what you
define as success before you jump into
it yeah do do you feel there's any types
of companies
or size of companies in B2B that are not
a good fit for all
bound I would say early days right like
you kind of need in some ways you're
probably doing allbound and early day
kind of startups anyway because
everyone's wearing a ton of hats um yeah
maybe it's not um all that different and
it's just you kind of are still figuring
out what works and you're probably doing
still a lot of like founder-led sales
and they're having the conversations and
so it's probably not the biggest fit
there maybe on opposite side of the room
is these giant giant corporations I
haven't worked in one in a while so it's
hard for me to say um I think it
requires some agility which is you know
startup scale up world you kind of have
and you can still have close enough
relationships because you're not a you
know 20,000 person company um so that
your relationship is like I said like a
big part of this um so I think it it
works well in the the scaleup phase
where you're also having to create
process anyway just by nature of the
business and the growth Journey it's on
um and formalized that a little bit so
it works well then um not to say it
couldn't work in others but not speaking
from experience on
those yeah I think that makes sense I
think like you said I mean that's very
much the stage of my business breaking
B2B is at like I'm I'm the founder I run
a lot of ourselves schols we run
experiments most months whether that's
around cold calling cold email different
LinkedIn approaches weird SEO tests and
stuff like that so I I love the the
flexibility that we can kind of run
whatever we want whenever we
want but and that same time you
sacrifice more
time than than cash
so as as you scale it's more things
maybe not can't get signed off as
quickly but you can allocate more
resource to it or more cash to it so
there's always kind of constraints
depending on the size of your business
right and what you can what you can and
the majority like how do you have
product Market fit do you have like you
need certain check boxes right and and
it just you know um I think I was at a
conference where they talked about go to
market fit and and when do you need to
evaluate that when there you know
there's a couple different ways you can
grow a business geographically product
wise or you can go up Market down Market
these kind of
things um it really just to kind of that
Matrix depends hopefully you're not
trying to do all of it but uh um I think
yeah when you've established a solid
product Market you've got a good
customer base you maybe have a well
seasoned team you know that's that's
ready to do it together I think it works
probably better than
uh early stage or um when you've got a
really Green Team cool jilan thanks very
much for coming on the show appreciate
the transparency no worries appreciate
you going through the the process and
sharing kind of what's working for you
folks and the ins and outs with that
said please do tell us more about how on
tuning in can connect with you learn
more to share yeah you can connect with
me on LinkedIn I'm actually not here to
sell you anything uh uh you want to
check out Q you're more than welcome we
uh we help some of the biggest brands in
their biggest days is what we like to
say so if you've been in line online
you've probably experienced the Q uh
system uh we have lots of great things
that we're working on so if you're
curious by all means but uh I'm sure I'm
just talking to marketers right now so
um yeah thanks for having me Sam I don't
have a a pitch so to
speak well good in that case everyone
can follow you on on LinkedIn for more
of your wisdom yeah appreciate you
coming on and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode check out the weekly
email over at breaking
bb.com with that I want to thank you
Jillian and thank the audience for for
tuning in and with that we'll catch you
on the next one for more nobs B
marketing tips stories and insights
cheers for tuning in
[Music]